Describe results of OpenTelemetry PoC for tracing (#546)
kyma-project/community: internal/research/opentelemetry/instrumentation-tracing.md

	// In a production application, use sdktrace.ProbabilitySampler with a desired probability.
	tp := sdktrace.NewTracerProvider(
		sdktrace.WithSampler(sdktrace.AlwaysSample()),
		sdktrace.WithSyncer(exporter),
		sdktrace.WithResource(resource.NewWithAttributes(semconv.ServiceNameKey.String("my-service"))),
	)
	defer func() { _ = tp.Shutdown(ctx) }()

	pusher := controller.New(
		processor.New(
			simple.NewWithExactDistribution(),
			exporter,
		),
		controller.WithExporter(exporter),
		controller.WithCollectPeriod(5*time.Second),
	)

	err = pusher.Start(ctx)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, err
	}

	// Handle this error in a sensible manner where possible
	defer func() { _ = pusher.Stop(ctx) }()
	otel.SetTracerProvider(tp)
	global.SetMeterProvider(pusher.MeterProvider())
	propagator := propagation.NewCompositeTextMapPropagator(propagation.Baggage{}, propagation.TraceContext{}, b3.B3{})
	otel.SetTextMapPropagator(propagator)
	return tp.Tracer("reviews-go"), nil
}
```

Individual code snippets can be instrumented with spans as follows:

```
var span trace.Span
ctx := r.Context()
ctx, span = h.tracer.Start(ctx, "myRequestHandler")
defer span.End()
...
```

> Spans can be enhanced with additional events. Events can contain custom attributes. E.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spans can be enhanced with additional events. Events can contain custom attributes, for example:
```

```
...
span.AddEvent("Acquiring lock", trace.WithAttributes(label.Int("pid", 1234))
mutex.Lock()
```

## Automatic Instrumentation

> OpenTelemetry provides a list of [packages](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation) that can instrument specific Golang packages automatically. E.g., `net/http`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenTelemetry provides a list of [packages](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/tree/main/instrumentation) that can instrument specific Golang packages automatically, for example, `net/http`.
```

## Findings

> * The trace context propagation feature lacks documentation. We were not able to propagate the B3 context that has been injected by Istio to the OpenTelemetry SDK to the own span.

Reviewer: what is "the own span" ? Our span?

Author: Then span that has been created for the current request by the SDK. Changed the wording a bit to make this clear.

* Automatic instrumentation of the `net/http` packages did not generate any traces.

> * Documentation for the metrics API and logs API yet. In particular the enhancement of trace spans with metrics is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Documentation for the metrics API and logs API yet. In particular, the enhancement of trace spans with metrics is not available.
```
I don't understand the first sentence, some information seems to be missing.

> * Traces were exported to the collector unreliably. Needs further investigation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Traces were exported to the collector unreliably. Needs further investigation.
```
